Hello, my name is Tony Ramirez from Tampa
Florida, and on behalf of expert village,
this is how to write a screenplay.
Let's get started.
Chapter one: Screenwriting 101. So, you want
to write a screenplay. This is the basic thing
that you're going to want to follow to write
your own screenplay. There's several ways
to do it. You have the old fashioned writing
it by hand, or if you're still using a type
writer, you can go ahead and type it out,
if you're using a word processing software
such as Word Perfect or Microsoft Word, you
can use those as well. The one thing that
you are going to have to remember is the formatting
of how a script is written. This is something
throughout the next couple of chapters, hopefully
I'll be able to help you understand... the
spacing of things, the order of things, how
things are supposed to be written out when
writing a screenplay. These are the main things
you're going to have to follow; everything
has a format and it has to look exactly like
this. So again, hopefully, the following chapters
will help you out.
My suggestion is to go out and get yourself
software. This one I purchased a few years
ago; it is the Movie Magic Screenwriter 2000.
They're up to version six now, they're not
number 2000 anymore. Thi program cost $299
a few years ago; I spent that because I was
making some decent money while I was trying
to make all these short films, commercials
and things like that. There's also Final Draft,
which is another company that makes screenwriting
software. Those now are just over $200 as
well. But the best part if you're listening
to this and you're remembering this and you're
going to be doing stuff is that there is a
website out there called celtx.com. This is
a free, yes free, free, free, free, screenwriting
software. This software is very powerful,
it works perfectly, it's just as good as this
$300 one or the $200 and $300 Final Draft
ones, so go out and get that one. Especially,
if you're just going to test the waters and
you want to just start writing stuff out.
But the main thing is when you're using these
softwares, they'll do almost everything for
you. When you're writing your action scripting,
your action lines, your heading, your dialog,
your characters, It'll actually space things
exactly how they're supposedto be. So that's
why you want to use these and not Microsoft
Word. And have to go back and try to format
everything and move your margins over, because
that can be a real pain in the butt.
So go out and either invest in something really
fancy, go to that website and download it
for free, install it in your computer, play
around, learn your characters, develope your
characters, develope your story, write your
script, print it out in these software programs,
and you're pretty much ready to go. So good
luck in Hollywood!